so a couple of things so um in light of
the election and all of the stress
we're actually launching uh uh a lot of
coaching spots on november 9th we've
been full for a couple of weeks
um and so we're gonna have a bunch more
spots opening up next week to help you
guys cope with the results of the
election
so i just wanted to share with you we
asked a client recently you know what
brought you into coaching like why'd you
sign up and this is what they said
i was struggling struggling with being
stuck in life not knowing what to do not
knowing how to proceed in life and
finding motivation
i felt like my gaming habits were
unhealthy i also didn't like my job
and i asked myself what else i could do
and didn't have an answer i didn't know
what i was looking for i felt like i was
in an mmo and doing all the side quests
i was done with the starter zone and i
didn't know what other places existed
so interestingly enough you know this is
the this is
why people sign up for coaching i think
that's prime example of what coaching is
about
it's not a medical treatment so it's not
there to fix your depression or anxiety
it's
it's there to help you get out of the
starter zone that's really what it's
about
and uh you know if you feel stuck or
unmotivated or don't really
know where to go like that's what we're
here for thanks for coming on
no thank you so much for having me on i
am uh i'm very excited about this
yeah so um oh oh so now i understand
your name so obese to beast
yeah if if you just read it as like
obesity beast it's just like what is
that i don't understand but yeah it's
like
obese to be beast and and so i'm
presuming that you used to be obese
yeah so when i was 20 years old i was
like close to 400 pounds so i
oh my god well probably like three i
always say 360
because when i first started losing
weight i was
uh didn't want to step on a scale so i
finally stepped on a scale after had
lost like a quite a bit and i saw like
and i was like oh i probably lost like
20 pounds um but then i've like talked
to other people like my mom and stuff
and she was just like i think you were
bigger than 360 but
i've said 360 since i started everything
so i'm not i'm not gonna like change my
high weight because you can't really do
that so
um yeah i always say right now 360. i
don't know i feel like it would be weird
if i've always said i was 360 pounds
then all of a sudden like someone comes
back after a year and i'm saying
yeah it was 400 pounds they'd be like
wait what how did you get heavier at one
point like you know
yeah it's it's interesting yeah i mean i
i think
you know if you if you understand things
to be different it's cool to change your
mind you know
and yeah i mean yeah you're right you're
not wrong
you're not wrong at all yeah it's it
sounds like maybe you're concerned about
what other people think and how you're
viewed
oh yeah yeah just checking the discord
server and and so what do you what
would you like to be called uh just call
me john
john okay and and john um so i don't
know how familiar you are so john can
you just tell us a little bit about uh i
understand you have a pretty prominent
youtube channel
yeah so uh i so i do have a youtube
channel i have like a youtube channel
instagram all that stuff so uh i started
the youtube channel like after i had
lost most of my weight
and it was just a place for me to kind
of so i had the instagram first
and i was getting a lot of questions
that i couldn't really answer on
instagram
this was like before instagram even had
stories or videos or anything right it
was only photos
and then so i was like i had a lot of
people that would ask me questions
and that i couldn't really answer just
through you know kind of
taking a picture and writing a caption
because i hate writing
uh and so i was like you know i want to
start a youtube channel and
i ended up kind of just starting that
just kind of to give people the
the like give answers that people had
questions too give
yeah give advance that doesn't make any
sense but um and then
so i started off like i wanted to do
full day of eating videos to kind of
show people what i was eating
and then uh like a transformation video
and then so
the way that it kind of took off and the
way that um i was able to become a
youtuber
was i actually had a video that went
really viral it was about my loose skin
so when you have a lot of weight to lose
and you lose a lot of weight you're left
with blue skin
and so i shared a video it's called my
biggest insecurity where i kind of you
know took my shirt off and showed people
what my loose skin looked
like and that video just ended up like
going viral
and i mean it completely changed like
that video and then
what i was able to do from that video
like completely changed like the
trajectory of my life um and so since
then i've just been
um pretty much like making making videos
and
streaming and you know just being a
content creator i guess
yeah can you help me understand a little
bit about um so
actually let me just take a step back so
john are you kind of familiar with what
we do or
do you want a quick intro oh no no i'm
very familiar i was i
i reached out to you guys because i was
just like wow i've watched a lot of the
videos on youtube because that's where i
um and like that's where i consume a lot
of content and so i was just like
selfishly i was like this would be great
to talk to dr k and then yeah i didn't
think anything would happen and it
worked out so
awesome and so so let's just talk about
that so you know what would you like to
talk about and
and how can i help or be of service to
you today
so the the first reason that i reached
out
was or the so this is what was kind of
going through my mind i felt like it was
a little selfish for me to this is just
how i am i felt like it was a little
and i was like hey i want i would love
to talk about the things that i struggle
with right and so
in my head i was like okay how can i
make this sound better
so i was like i think it would be
interesting um talk about
like the connection of like mental
health and physical health because i
personally have
um you know dealt with like improving my
physical health quite a bit
and i know like because i speak to a lot
of people that are trying to
you know lose weight improve their
physical health and they are also
struggling
with like mental health and i think a
lot of people
they think that if they improve their
their weight or their physical health
they think that it's going to be
like it's going to fix their their
mental health
um and i i thought that would be
interesting to kind of talk to you about
and then for myself personally like i
struggle with um a lot of the stuff that
i've
i've watched i mean the reason i knew
that you i even knew about you is
because i struggled with these things
and there therefore i was watching
videos right
so like anxiety and um like
depression i i guess you could call it
that at some time at some points
um and then i think another thing that i
struggle with which i know you've talked
about
before is like imposter syndrome um and
so like
those are probably like the main things
i would say that i that i struggle with
for sure
okay cool so let me just can i just uh
repeat back what i heard
john so um
you were hoping to come on to sort of
see if if maybe i could help you but
then i also get the sense that you felt
like maybe that was a little bit selfish
and that you you wanted to kind of cover
things that can be more applicable to
other people
and so talking a little bit more about
the mind-body connection and stuff like
that
um which i think is i think all that
stuff is fantastic so just a couple of
thoughts
uh just like a response john first of
all i think it's totally cool for you to
be selfish man
so i i think that that this channel is
what it is
because we talk about one person's
problems it's not an abstract discussion
and and i think that's actually what's
really cool is that the problems that
you think
may be selfish for you to talk about are
the very ones that i think will help
other people
um and at the same time if you want to
talk about mind-body stuff that's
actually it's interesting because people
sort of talk
you know they think i'm an expert on
like video games and social media and
technology and stuff which arguably i am
but really my background is in mind-body
medicine i mean that's what i've studied
for about
15 years um so i'd love to talk about
that just because you know i like to
hear myself talk about things that i
understand
but but i mean i you know i i would say
that what i
i really try to do john is like i'm here
to help you man and
and if it helps other people fantastic
but it's
it's um you know i think it's totally
cool for us to just talk about
you and then i'll throw in mind body
stuff because you seem to be interested
in that so we'll roll that in cool
so tell me excuse me so you said anxiety
depression and imposter syndrome
um can you tell me what you mean by
those terms
yeah i can do try to do my best to
explain it so
i the way that i explain when i like
have maybe an
anxiety attack or a panic attack or it
feels like
another person is taking over my body
and it's like i have no control over
the thoughts that they have um like and
it's frustrating because
i the people that are closest to me are
the people that i end up being like the
meanest two or the coldest two beautiful
um
and the like ever since i can remember
um i've i've never been a
like a loud person or like i never when
i got angry i don't
i don't lash out i just shut down like
and it's been like this since i was
uh i was a kid the one of the
i've i've shared this experience with
like my
my channel and stuff before but there
was one time where i was it was when i
was younger
i i got into an argument with my sister
and she said something kind of like
about my weight
and then instead of like me and my
sister's great but you know
siblings but um we got into an argument
and then she said that and
instead of me like yelling back at her i
just went to my room shut my door and i
stayed in my room
all day long like the rest of the day
like this was middle of the day
i stayed in my room until like midnight
that night and then there's
there's a taco shop that was by my house
when i was growing up that was open 24
7.
so i walked to that taco shop i bought a
uh
they're actually very good they're
called super nachos so they're basically
like nachos with carne asada beans
rice guacamole like anything i live in
san diego right so mexican food is like
a really big thing here
um and so i went and i got that and i
ate the whole thing
right like and it's like meant for four
people like at least
right and and i've been like that with
my mom whenever we would get into
arguments when i was younger
i would shut down like it's just how
i've always been and then
now as i'm older like i can't really do
that as much as i
used to because i have other
responsibilities so while
i'm shutting down mentally physically
i'm like i have to try and
do things still but it's i don't it's
just so strange because it's like
when i'm out of that mode of anxiety or
that
um like that feeling i look back and i'm
like what was i doing like why was i
doing why was i
acting that way i i just like like
that's why i say i feel like someone
else takes over my body
yeah because i get out of it and then
i'm just like
why was i what was i so worried about
like or why was i acting
like i'm like disappointed in the way
that i was acting
sure and then it it ends up getting
worse
because of how disappointed i am in
myself i'll end up not saying sorry i'll
end up not talking to the person
i'll end up like pushing myself further
back
because i feel bad about how i was
acting and
and then it's like oh it's been a day
it's been two days now it's too it's
it's been too late for me to even act
out um
and then like with like the depression
kind of is linked in with that like it's
a very
um like when i start feeling that way
especially if it's it over an elongated
period of time
it's like it just adds and adds and adds
um yeah and then like with the with the
imposter stuff i feel like that's
it's probably i'm sure it's all
connected but it's a little bit less
related because for me
like i have hundreds of thousands of
people that follow me on all my
platforms right
and i am just a dude that lost weight
and so it's
a lot of people will message me and
think that i can like solve all their
problems
and they they think that i am like i
just struggle with being like i've said
it so many times when it comes to like
like the weight that i've lost and like
what i've been able to do
like i'm not special in any way like i
didn't i don't have something special
about me that made it so
hey i can like um i was able to do this
and no one else can and you should
definitely reach out to me because i
have all the answers it's like dude i
was just a normal guy
i was just a normal guy that was working
minimum wage jobs
that was like like i said that's why i
say like i'm so thankful for what i do
now
because my future then was not very
uh bright like when i look back at it
and so um that kind of plays into it and
i think like
another thing that i kind of struggle
with and i think it's related to that is
i can talk forever so
um but keep going bro i uh i struggle
with
not feeling like i'm very smart so
growing up um
i was in special ed my whole life um and
so like i remember i went to college and
i
i went for like one year and i was so
bad
like i i was a music major and one of
the classes i took they were like you
have to know how to read music to be in
this class i don't know how to read
music
and so i was just like uh okay well i
guess i'll drop this one and
um and so like that's another thing that
has like followed me my whole life is
feeling like
i'm like i'm dumb and so i think that
goes into why
like i have the imposter syndrome
because i'm like why are people
following me i'm not smart enough to
help anyone kind of thing
like that's again those are the thoughts
i have when i'm that person that's like
anxious and stuff but when i step back
i'm like
well regardless of what what um
what how many how many like how many
diplomas i might have or whatever
like i've still been able to help this
many people regardless of that
like i know that but again like when i'm
in that mode it doesn't matter
okay so okay so you know sometimes i'm
gonna say
beautiful to some things but those
things aren't beautiful i i think it's
just i i'm i'm
first of all john i'm really excited for
this conversation
um i i think you're uh
you know your ability to
map out what your internal experiences i
think is like
amazing and i think this is
unfortunately one of the consequences
of you know being in your head a lot and
suffering
a lot right and you can see that you're
not actually in control
um and you just gave me so much that can
i just
try to collect my thoughts and think
about a plan of attack
for for how to approach this stuff yeah
okay so i've got a couple of thoughts
okay so the first thing i'm gonna just
toss out maybe a map
and then we can decide you know which
direction you wanna go
okay so there are some things in your
mind and we can explore the origins of
those things
and then the second thing that we can do
is we can explore
how those things manifest and function
in the present
and what i mean by that is that like you
become another person right so we can
think about
how does that work in the mind where you
become another person
and so then that sort of begs this like
interesting philosophical question of
like who are you
if you become another person and then
like what is the relationship
between not just your body and your mind
but you
and your body and your mind so we can
think about where that other person
comes from
we can think about how that other person
takes control
and then we can also think about what
you do
in response to that other person taking
control
which isn't of itself a third person
right there's the one who panics and
loses confidence
and then there's the you who beats
yourself up for not doing good enough
and the crazy thing is that's still not
you that's just another person who crops
up
and then we can also think through a lot
of the consequences of all of that stuff
so principles like you know why is it
that we're meanest to the people
closest to us and that actually like the
people that we love and care about the
most
are the ones that we you know sort of
show our ugliest side to
and then the last thing that we can kind
of touch on is something about the
imposter syndrome which is just that
you know all these people approach you
and you say i'm just a dude who lost
weight i'm not special in any way
and we can talk a little bit about that
um and john i think oddly enough
that's the reason that they approach you
in in summary
i think because you do you're so
authentic that people reach out to you
for help
because you're an ordinary guy and so if
an
ordinary guy can do it they can do it
too but if you were superhuman
then it doesn't apply right like it just
doesn't apply
and so oddly enough i think that's
actually where your value
really is you kind of say i'm nothing
special and i think absolutely you're
nothing special
and that's what makes you priceless
right because you've done it and you
were working minimum wage jobs and you
did do one year of college and you
weren't something like amazing and
special and
that in and of itself is what's so
[ __ ] amazing about you
and that's why people reach out to you
so in a weird way i'd say that there's
there's some kind of embracing which i
think you know how to do
um there's some embracing of who you are
which is absolutely amazing and at the
same time nothing special that those
contrary ideas in your mind can be held
together
um and then the last thing that i just
really appreciated is that you you know
you do actually share some stories about
like your sister and stuff like that
and i think that kind of stuff really
helps because it
it it kind of gives us like not just
abstract thinking but like this is
actually the sequence of events
and then we can really understand what's
going on inside you
um so any thoughts or responses to that
any direction no i mean i i think that
everything that you just said i i
i'm excited to talk about and i i think
like just
as someone that's watched a lot of of
your content and stuff like i i do
i do fully acknowledge and i'm sure that
some of this
a lot of the stuff that happened in my
past which i've had a
interesting you know childhood um
definitely affects me
now like sure i i know that for a fact i
just don't know
how and to what extent right right like
i'm just not totally
sure of how right so let's dig in man so
tell me about your as you put an
interesting past yeah so
so growing up um my mom was
my mom and dad were both drug addicts
and so we actually were taken away
when i say we i have i have a lot of
siblings like seven or eight
but most of them are half and some of
them i never met because like
one of them his name's nick um he was
given up
right as he was born and i've never met
him right and so like a lot of my
siblings are like half-siblings but
um growing up like who i was with most
in my full siblings are my brother jean
and my sister evelyn okay so it was us
three that grew up with
my mom and kind of my dad a little bit
um but when i was really young and i
said when i say young i was like three
or four i think we were we were taken
away from them
um from cps child protective services
and uh because they were drug addicts
and
we were put into this place is called
polinsky here in san diego it's just
like a foster care place and then
luckily seriously luckily our uncle took
us in which is very strange because
we're not very close with him
because if if he didn't take us in we
would have either one been like
shipped off to other foster homes and
maybe not kept together
or we would have been um shipped off to
my grand
grandmother who lives in um pennsylvania
so on the east coast
and we would have from what i understand
what my mom has told us like if that
happened
we would have been there until my sister
turned 18. like it would have been
there was no chance we could have went
back with my mom so
um it's kind of a happy ending though
because after about a year we actually
were put back with my mom which does not
happen very often
with cps because my mom actually she
went to a drug rehabilitation center
it was a church um and they have like a
drug rehabilitation like
thing that they do it's called it was
called calvary ranch and she was able to
get clean and she's been clean ever
since then
so like you know and so it was it is
really cool
but um yeah and uh and so do you do you
know what your mom
if you don't mind me asking you don't
have to answer this out of you know
um uh respect for her privacy but do you
happen to know what substances she was
using
yeah it was like meth for the most part
okay do you
do you know if she was using while she
was pregnant with you
um i honestly i i wouldn't be
surprised that i i don't think i've ever
even asked i think it's like one of
those things i was like i don't really
want to know if i want to know this
okay sure um and if i if i ask something
that's out of line just let me know okay
john
i will but i highly doubt there will be
anything okay i'm very open about all
this stuff
um but yes i'll let you know um so we
ended up getting put back with her
um but growing up like then we were
pretty much just with
her um and my dad was like kind of
around but then after about a few years
we ended up moving away from him
it's an interesting family dynamic that
we can go into but like we don't not
like my dad we're actually i'm actually
very close
oh i'm close with him and his now
basically wife
and their whole family like we're a big
mixed family now
but at the time uh growing up uh we were
just very
poor i guess you could call it like we
just didn't have much money like my mom
was working
um you know it's like many many many
hours
um and so therefore we just didn't have
like we were
we're on government housing um so it's
called section 8 here in california
and so we were on that and just like
money was not something we had
very much of and so uh kind of growing
up
yeah yeah it was yeah it was
we had some some tough times we were
really lucky that some of the
local churches around us would kind of
like take care of us around like certain
holidays
like we had um we had this place called
sunshine haven that every like christmas
they would come like um a day before
christmas christmas eve for like two
days and they would just drop off
presents
because like they would have people like
donate them and then they'd go to like
families in need
i remember this is random but like one
year they
they gave my mom a present it was
underwear but they were like
comically large and i just remember we
all it was so funny like there were no
joke like
this big you know but um
so yeah like growing up and then and
then you know like
i that's when i i started gaining weight
um because like that was a huge part of
like of my like childhood was
when i was about seven years old and i
remember like
being frustrated because my family would
eat the same foods as me
but none of them were getting as big as
i was like because i was
i was like from seven years old up until
i was 20 i just consistently gained and
it was like
it started like every year it was
becoming more and more of an issue for
me
um and and then in second grade was when
i actually ended up being
put in special ed or rsp um resource
specialist
program um and then from from there on
out like i just
i just remember like my mom tells the
story but like
there would be times where i would come
home from school and i would just be
crying
like because i'd be trying to do the
homework and like we're doing
multiplication
and like everyone just understands it
and i'm like what is this
like i had no idea what was going on and
i just i don't know why i remember that
like from that moment i've always
felt like i'm not good enough um
and like i there's something wrong with
me kind of thing
um but i will say like all in all with
all of that stuff that has happened
like that's why i'm so thankful of where
i am now
because like if we if we were to talk
about
where you should be like i should not be
where i am now
at least in my mind um with like the
background that i have
and so that's why i'm so like thankful
and i i try my best to
um foster i guess my community or foster
what i have as best as i can
um because i know that i just i feel
like i know where i would be if i didn't
have it
okay
john your story is incredibly rich man
seriously there's so many well it's more
poor than it is rich but
i'm sorry uh yes
fair point um no i bet i mean a good one
to be honest it's not stupid it's
actually brilliant
um but you know there's just there's so
much here
and this is going to be tough my dude i
i think i think um
i already sort of see a road forward for
you but i think it's going to be a
little bit challenging and i just want
to sketch this out a little bit
okay
so when you say i shouldn't be where i
am today
that implies so much gratitude
right and you kind of say i'm lucky like
you talk about your uncle
and and stuff like that um
and so the the tricky thing there is
that like being grateful for
for where you are and and feeling lucky
is like that's a good thing right we
we like we respect people for that we
we prioritize people for that
um but there's there's actually like a
a tricky underbelly which maybe exists
here and i i suspect maybe it does and i
think this manifests in
in some other ways which is that
you know if you if you don't deserve to
be i mean if you shouldn't be where you
are today then in a sense you don't
deserve it
right and if we if we really tunnel down
this is where things get really subtle
because
if you don't deserve it that sort of
implies
a certain value about you as a human
being
whereas there's a part of me that tells
you actually like that wants to say to
you john you absolutely deserve
everything that you have man in fact you
deserve so much more than you have
that sure you can be lucky and grateful
but actually at the end of the day
if you look at what you deserve and what
you're worth it's way more
than what you have does that make sense
yeah right and it's hard because
somewhere along the way like you started
to
consider yourself lucky that you got to
live with your mom and like it's
wonderful that you have that gratitude
but at the end of the day
that's not lucky bro your life
is filled with bad beats
right and really what you deserve is
like way more
like you do you don't deserve like it's
wonderful that you're grateful but like
you've got to be really careful because
there's something really subtle here
which is that underneath the positivity
is this underlying belief that if you're
lucky
then you didn't deserve it
and if we kind of go back to the heart
of the imposter syndrome
i think that has to do with like this
fundamental idea that like you
don't deserve this
right and if we really it gets tricky so
we'll dig into that a little bit more
does that make sense
no yeah i mean i think that
yeah 100 i think i think that there's
it's kind of like i mean in layman's
terms is what my mind is thinking is
like too much of a good thing
like there's such thing as that right
being grateful sometimes can be like
after you turn it into being like i
don't deserve which i
i don't think that that in the end is
going to
be a net positive if that's because
that's that is kind of where my mind
ends up going when i go down that road
yeah right so and that's that's and i
think it manifests in kind of weird ways
like i think that
um what i'm not hearing a whole lot of
you so it's funny because people who
come on stream
either i hear too much anger from them
or i hear not enough
and and i i think there's something
about retreating and
and i'm getting the vibe of anger that
is manifesting
in different ways like it's like anger
you know
there's a there's a lot of injustice in
your story actually
and i think sometimes we kind of look at
ourselves and we say like what's the
point
of like bitching about unjustice and how
unlucky we are
and and that sort of makes sense because
i think a lot of times that too can be
too much of a bad thing and then it kind
of
you know we're just complaining all the
time and so i think you've learned how
to be incredibly positive
how to pick yourself up by your
bootstraps how to you know i i think
it's clear that you've gone from
obese to beast and the interesting thing
is that that journey
actually i i get the sense that you've
pushed a part of yourself off to the
side
and then you have this like little boy
in the basement like this seven-year-old
fat kid who doesn't know how to do
multiplication
and then every once in a while like
something happens and the fat kid comes
out of the basement and that's how you
feel right like even i i would venture
when you when that other person takes
you over you're not even an adult
i mean yeah i feel like i'm being a
child is like because you are being a
child
yeah yeah because you are and that's not
an un
and this is the really tricky thing john
boy dude this is going to be tough bro
because because what i what i would love
to help you do
is to not discount the fact that you are
behaving like child because you are
because that's
what happens and we'll talk about the
mechanism of what's happening in your
mind
but for you to acknowledge that you are
behaving like a child
and that you deserve to do so
right because when you when you beat up
that seven-year-old kid what does he do
he goes he
eats a plate of super nachos
and then you know goes into the basement
and you push him in
and then like he comes out again and
he's gained five pounds
and then over time despite all of your
successes you've taken all of your
negativity
and you've kind of like condensed it
into this one thing
that pops out of the surface every now
and then
and so it's kind of like i i don't doubt
that you've grown and it's clear that
you know
i mean you've grown immensely john and i
think this is the real challenge
is that you know i think you've picked a
lot of the low-hanging fruit so your
growth
now the the more pure you become
the more subtle the growth that you have
to do and actually the harder it becomes
right if i have like a really dirty
table i can just take
one swipe of a cloth and do a lot of
cleaning but if i only have one speck of
dust left i really have to look really
really hard
and and i'm laying the foundation for a
couple of principles that
i'll explain later about mind body stuff
um but any thoughts about that
no i mean i i think it all it all makes
sense
um it's i it's interesting um like the
thing that kind of stuck out to me
uh like the one thing that when you said
it i was like oh interesting i would
have never
thought that was like you were acting
like and you deserve to do
that in my mind it just it's this
feeling of
no like don't act like that you need to
like i beat myself up right like when
i'm acting that way
and then that's what it's it turns into
this cycle that i was explaining then i
don't reach out to the person and then
it's like
you know so i thought that that was
interesting yeah so let's talk about
that for a second right because i said
that's actually a third person
there's john there's the seven-year-old
fat kid
and then there's the kid who beats up
the seven-year-old fat kid
your first step forward and this is the
problem that a lot of people run into is
they think
my problem is the seven years does it
hurt your feelings when i say
seven-year-old fat kid
not at all is that insensitive okay no
that's fine
so so i and i think the problem is that
everyone looks and they say oh the
problem is that the seven-year-old fat
kid keeps on coming out of the basement
and they say that's the part of me that
i want to change
and the reason that they stay stuck is
because that's not actually what you
need to change
you need to change before that you need
to change
the bully that lives within you
and once you change the bully then
you'll be able to deal with the fat kid
but the real problem is like
you know the the fat kid's a little bit
of a distraction
and so that now the next question is is
you know where did you learn
how to judge yourself that way like like
it's this judgment i think that we
actually need to start
and so can you tell me you know did
other people judge you growing up like
like let's talk talk to me about
judgment because you're so good at
telling me stories like tell me stories
bro
um that's a good question like where did
i learn about judgment i think like
just growing up and feeling like
i was you know feeling like i was poor
and so like always trying to
prove to people that i was maybe worth
like being like a friend of theirs you
know like
uh i remember in in junior high i
remember like there was this group of
friends
like because like growing up i was
really big into church
um and there was this group of friends
that i had in junior high
that i was like i knew
i should not be hanging out with these
kids like i i knew as far as far as what
my morals were like they were they were
like
people that were like already already
smoking a lot of pot they're already
like
talking about drugs all the time like
all this stuff that i personally like
was not into
and i didn't want to get into it but
they were cool
like they were the cool kids in school
and so the fact that they wanted me to
be a friend
um i was like okay well that that makes
me cool then
and i just i remember like there'd be a
lot of times where i would just
like one thing that i really really did
a lot
in junior high and in high school and
i'm not sure if this is answering your
question but this is just what
came to my mind is i was very good at
making fun of myself
and so i hated hated hated
if someone made fun of me like i did not
like that so
i was very lucky okay it was a
double-edged sword i was very lucky
because i didn't have a lot of people
make fun of me but the reason
was because i made fun of myself so much
and i've talked about this kind of
before it's like
so i would i would put on this mask of
i'm the funny fat guy that's what i
would call i'm the funny fat guy
i i have a i have a tattoo on my calf of
a cupcake
because my name in high school was
cupcake like everyone called me that
and like the reason i got that nickname
was because there's a group of people
that were trying to be mean to me
and make fun of me and call me cupcake
because i was fat and so i was like
i like that name and i i internalized it
and i like when i graduated they said
john david cupcake glad
like it was like everyone knew me as
cupcake in my high school right
and so i had this like mask on of i'm
the funny fat guy like
no one would make fun of me because i
was always doing it all the time
and so it was like the reason i say it
was a double-edged sword was because yes
no one made fun of me
but i also felt like i was garbage like
i felt
like because of how much i would make
fun of myself and how much i was a joke
i started to just believe you are a joke
like you're not worth anything like
you're worthless right
that's something that i like when i'm in
that mode that i was telling about like
that's the
first thing that comes into my mind is
you're worthless like it just pops up
and like i'll be like like i say when i
when i say that i
um the people that are closest to me get
the most of it like i'll be texting my
girlfriend and all of a sudden it's just
i'm worthless i'm a piece of crap
i'm garbage and it's like
and i'm like what it doesn't make any
sense looking back
but in the moment it's like why does it
make any sense
looking back because like
the john that we see now i guess you
said there's like three different
people right the john looking back is
like
you are like you've done so much like
you've you've been through so many
things and you've been able to get
through them
and you you've been able to help so many
people out like that's obviously not
true
but it's like when i'm in that mode
nothing
anyone says like any no matter how much
i care about you
know it doesn't matter like it just like
i've i've
seen other people explain it this way
like i feel numb is like
there's just it doesn't matter what
anyone says i am
this is what i am and it's the truth and
then it might be i wake up the next
morning and i look back and i'm like
okay
that's definitely not true or sometimes
it'll happen during the day and i all of
a sudden kind of
like i don't know what starts happening
but it's like i can start to see i get
so hyper focused on these thoughts
and then i start to be able to not be so
focused on them and think about other
things and
and then i'm like okay like that's not
that's not true um yeah i don't know if
that answered your question
answers so much but i have so many more
so so i i'm gonna say something a little
bit provocative but i think it's
important
to tease apart what you're saying okay
so when you say looking back it's just
not true i actually disagree with that
okay i think looking at the now it's not
true
but when you look into your past
you know 14 year old cupcake it was
absolutely true
right so so this is the first thing
you've got to understand john some of
the things in our mind and maybe i need
to just take a step back and explain
some concepts like teach
but some of the things in our mind so if
we think about like ptsd for example
okay so people have flashbacks so like
what happens in a flashback
so let's say that i'm you know i'm in a
war
and then like i experienced like a
combat situation where like one of my
friends gets
you know blown up by like a missile
like you know i use a drastic example
because i'm thinking about a particular
person who exemplified this
and then what happens is like when i'm
walking down the street if there's a
loud
bang what happens in my mind
so my mind transports me
to that point in the past
right and then like i have this thing
called a flashback
where like i i lose sight of where i am
i lose sight of who i am
i can be 70 years old and that have been
in the vietnam war
when i was 25 and when i hear a bang
i get transported i become that 25 year
old self
i don't become a grandfather who you
know has lived so much
i'm like a scared kid in like the
jungles of vietnam
where my friend just died in front of my
eyes that's what i've become
and so if we if we stop and think about
that like
hold on a second like that's weird right
so the first thing that we've got to
acknowledge
is that our mind and our brain has the
capacity
to transport us into the past
and this is the problem is that i think
part of the reason you're stuck is
because
you try to tell yourself that you're not
worthless
but you feel like you are worthless and
so so there's like this conflict where
you're like fighting against yourself
when you
fight against yourself you're not gonna
win
right it's kind of weird so so i think
in a bizarre way
like what you need to do is like
actually accept that
you were worthless and this is this is
that your road forward is like not to
say you weren't worthless because
that's how you felt it it's that you are
worthless and that's okay
right like if i think about it i was
just talking to
to someone about this recently but you
know if we think about
what you need to do for yourself john
it's like like when you call yourself
worthless like that's you judging
yourself
and then there's even like a fourth
reaction of and let me know if i lose
you here which is that you beat yourself
up for calling yourself worthless
so it doesn't matter how far you go down
the road
it's always you beating yourself up even
though it is cloaked in positivity
does that make sense yeah
and so so like you know there's a part
of me that says like
you know if i had to transport back in
time to cupcake
my message to cupcake is not you know
you're a beautiful person and and
like there's nothing wrong with you or
anything like that that's actually not
my message to him because i don't think
that that's a fair message
my message to him is hey man you got
like i know you're struggling right now
i know you're overweight i know a lot of
people
make fun of you and you make fun of
yourself
but i don't think i don't agree with
them i know you feel that way
but you won't be this way forever
and that if you work at it you can grow
and you can change
but right now i have no doubt that you
feel
absolutely worthless because you don't
get good grades kids make fun of you you
make fun of yourself and you're
overweight
so i see why you feel worthless because
you look around and you don't see any
value
i know it's in there you've just got to
work
to go from obese to beast right
and even then like i think that your
answer is actually in your name because
you don't say
beast always you are not always
right and and so so it's actually
beautiful because i think what resonates
john with like other people and what
makes you not an imposter
is that in your name you own
the obeseness you own it but when you
start beating yourself up and you start
feeling that way
it's like beast back to obese in your
mind but like that's okay you've got to
own like
you're you're the spectrum right you've
got to balance like
the confidence that you have it's not
about like one winning over the other
it's like balancing both of those things
together
that make sense yeah what what are you
hearing
like i can't like if i
if i i have to i guess what i'm hearing
is like you have to live in that moment
sometimes like you can't like i'm
beating myself up for
like i'm telling myself i'm worthless so
that's in turn obviously that's beating
myself up
but then i am also beating myself up
after the fact
because i am saying why would you say
that that's not true
so now i'm like being myself well that's
stupid and you're being stupid and
you're being childish
there it is right so it's the same thing
it's just
layers and layers and layers and layers
of the same
complex which is that john you're not
good enough
even when you are trying to be positive
towards yourself that's
actually negative does that make sense
you're like
you've accomplished so much why are you
so
dumb that you can't see it yeah
you're still calling yourself it's the
same [ __ ] thing it's like
you know and so so so
that's what needs to change and the way
that we start changing that is to is to
think a little bit about like
you know to say that okay i i sometimes
i feel worthless like that's cool
right just because i feel that way and
because even i know this sounds crazy
even if i am that way right now it
doesn't have to be that way forever
because that's a statement you can get
behind
[Music]
right if you if you find yourself
retreating from your friends and your
family and girlfriend and whatnot
you can say okay sometimes i've got a
retreat because that's who i am
you know i i i've grown in a lot of ways
i haven't quite grown in this
and just because you haven't learned it
yet john ballpark how old you are
i'm about to be 28 in a few days okay
cool so like you just think about that
right like think about where you were
when you were 18.
where you were five years ago you've
accomplished
so much in the last five to ten years
and you've got at least 40 good years
ahead of you
and so you may feel worthless now and
you may beat yourself up but
you can learn how to not beat yourself
up over the next decade it's really cool
to beat yourself up
give yourself some time give yourself
some space
you know and and like you've you've made
one transformation in your body and for
the next decade of your life you're
going to focus on a transformation of
mind
and you have to accept that you're
overweight like
right but you have to start with the
acceptance that you are overweight and
so i think you can also start with the
acceptance that
mentally like you do things to yourself
which are not ideal
but that's actually okay yeah
right because you've got you've got the
beast working with you
yeah i think like just
for me to help me kind of process this
the way i
like what i'm hearing and like what what
i'm hearing is so i get a lot of people
that will ask me
i want to lose weight and i want it like
i want to lose 50 pounds in a month or
whatever
and i always have to say it it takes
time like it's not gonna happen
overnight
and so i haven't turned like i believe
that right but i think with
the stuff that we're talking about i get
frustrated that i i'm like that person
that's asking me the question to you is
like fix me right now i would like to
have everything
figured out and and i'm like when
they're asking me i'm like yo that's not
gonna
it just doesn't work like that it's
gonna take a long time and i
am it's funny because i'm like being
that person to you almost
sure is like how can i fix this right
now and then you're just like it's gonna
take a while man
so that's interesting to hear yeah so so
i i think it's interesting that that's
what you took away
and i think that actually demonstrates
to me that you understand it already
right so i i think that that what you
need to do is like just like you
encourage those other people to give
themselves time and be patient with
themselves
give yourself time and be patient with
this
um yeah that's that's
that's very well said john let me just
think any questions
not really i mean i'm sure i'll have
some stuff when we're towards the end
but right now i'm kind of
enjoying kind of working through it okay
yeah
so um let me just
think for a second about where to go
from here
okay so we can we can do a couple of
things either we can dig
further let me just teach you a couple
things actually okay
okay and then you tell me what you're
interested in
so let's talk about the mind body
connection for a minute so the first
thing
is that um you know i think there's a
part of you that
feels stupid right so like the part that
couldn't do multiplication the part that
couldn't
um read music and and maybe this makes
you feel like an imposter so let me just
start by saying john
i think that
we have this idea that some people are
smart and some people are stupid but
what i really like from eastern medicine
is that they say that they're different
kinds of minds
right just like they're different colors
of hair they're like different kinds of
minds
and some minds aren't great at like book
smarts
and some minds are not designed to sit
in a classroom for like eight hours a
day and like look at a textbook
it doesn't mean that they're stupid it
just means that your mind is different
and i think that like so one of my
teachers explained this to me like there
are some people who are hunters and some
people who are farmers
and the farmer mind like likes to wake
up at the same time every day
likes to sit in their chair read their
book like like routine like everything's
the same like
i don't like disruptions i can just i
love multiplication i love reading music
i love anything
on a page that i can read and no one
bothers me
and then there are hunters and hunters
are like i'm not going to sit around and
like sow seeds every day i want to be
out in the wilderness i want to be
looking around
i want to absorb a lot of stimuli i want
to integrate a lot of stimuli
i want to make a lot of decisions with a
lot of uncertainty like which way do i
go is this
dangerous is this not dangerous it's
just different kinds of minds
and and i don't know i mean do either of
those mindsets resonate with you
i mean the hunter one definitely is is
where
it's it's interesting because there's
like parts of each i guess
um so for me like routine is like it's
very important to me like i
when i when i am thrown off of my
routine that is definitely like i've
noticed that's a trigger of my anxiety
like it definitely can make me
anxious but at the same time like i
when i was a kid i was like diagnosed
with add and like i took woodland for a
little bit
um and so i'm definitely very like i
like to
to do things though like i like to um
like
i can't just do one thing forever like
i'm sure you've noticed like
i'm always fidgeting i'm always messing
with something it's just how i am
yeah um and so it's interesting but i
would say
i i probably would lean more towards
like the hunter
in that explanation i guess yeah so so
it's it's not
they're not mutually exclusive first of
all and there actually are three
not two so it's like a three-dimensional
thing um but
i i think you know just one thing to
that i would encourage you to just kind
of
potentially re-conceptualize your
upbringing is that like
um and i wouldn't quite go as far as to
say that you weren't book smart i think
you just you probably needed a more
dynamic learning environment
or frankly just more like one-on-one
attention
so there's a there's an interesting kind
of statistic it's a little bit
i'm extrapolating a little bit but
basically what we find is that
kids who are the less attention
an individual child has the more likely
they are to be diagnosed with adhd
so growing up it sounds like you were in
a single parent household with
with two siblings and and so what i what
i find
frankly as a clinician is that there are
some kids who are highly highly dynamic
and actually incredibly smart and
whether they go down the path of special
needs and adhd
or not has nothing to do with like their
intellect it has
everything to do with the amount of
individual attention that they can get
and if you can have because actually
what happens with with really smart kids
is they get
bored easily in class right and then
they start to fidget
whereas if you have someone who can
engage them in kind of a dynamic way
the kid is going to be like awesome like
they're going to be fantastic
you'll let their brilliance like kind of
flourish they just need a different kind
of soil
and what i'm hearing from you is that
probably the most likely thing is that
you weren't given the right kind of soil
that you needed to grow
and now i think part of the reason that
you're so successful is because you've
figured out oh like minimum wage job is
not going to be
i'm not the guy who gets like minimum
wage job and then becomes a manager
and then becomes a vp and that like
you'd [ __ ]
f that [ __ ] right it's like a little bit
of youtube video
a little bit of physical activity i'm
gonna cook this today
i'm gonna take these pictures for
instagram i'm gonna answer some
questions
you're like a hunter you're like out
there and you're like oh there's a track
over here what is this i smell something
over here
oh there's some like you know poop over
there like
you're you're kind of integrating a
bunch of information i think that's just
the fertile soil that you need
um and i i think for a lot of people out
there like this is important to remember
is that like if you got diagnosed and
you felt dumb
it's not so much that you were dumb or
that you're mentally ill
it's just that like there's a different
kind of environment that that child
needs to thrive
um any thoughts about that
no i mean i i agree and i think that
i mean there were things that um my like
the teachers would try and do when i was
in
in school like there was uh i also have
like dysgraphia so like
my handwriting is absolutely so bad um
so they would like try
it sucks because my handwriting's really
bad but i'm also unbelievably slow at
typing like i type like 20 to 30 words a
minute like it's really bad
but they ended up giving me this like
little it was before like computers and
laptops were like that people had them
so there's this little like machine that
they had that they would give me so i
could type instead of trying right
and i remember like i knew that they
were trying to give me this thing to
help
but i remember it felt like it made
things harder for me and then i was like
even this help that they're trying to
give me is making me
feel worse right yep um and i just i
remember feeling like
like i mean this is when i was like
young i was i was
i was in like elementary school at this
time and uh
and then they were like i remember there
were things where they would have like a
person come in and grab me
um i'm not sure if this was to do with
my learning disability if it was like
home
stuff because of the drugs but they
would like bring me into a room where it
was just me and this person
it was like during math class like math
class when i was really young
and they would bring me in there and
then we would do different types of math
so we would like work with blocks or
work with like
you know what i mean like and it would
be one-on-one instead of just like the
the class um i remember that but i do
remember
at that whole little typing thing
and feeling like this is supposed to
help and it's not helping made me feel
like well you're just kind of a lost
cause
when i was like you know in like super
super young
and i remember that being like tough for
me yeah so let's think about that for a
second john once again
wonderful dude the way your mind forms
connections is really amazing and you're
just a fantastic storyteller
so so let me ask you something john
think about the way that you felt
when they get gave you that typing
machine and it like still didn't help
and how you feel when you have a panic
attack
oh it's it's exactly the same man like
it's
it's it's so much the same that i
remember
i recently was like telling people i was
in my discord and i was like hey you
know i'm trying to work on my typing
and i like i shared out like where i'm
at and it was like 30 minutes
it made me like it it made me cry and
i'm like tearing up thinking about it
because people started like sharing
it's so silly uh people started sharing
their how fast they were and they were
like how are you so slow that's
ridiculous
and i just remember i just felt like the
kid again and i just
shrunk back and i was just like i don't
it made me
because i like to share a lot but then
at the same time like sometimes when i
share stuff
people will say that stuff and i know
that they weren't trying to mean of
course they're not
but it made me feel so small and it was
like
i am that i am the same like nothing has
changed like it makes me
feel like nothing has changed and i'm
still that person and i just remember
like
honestly like you were saying there was
anger i was mad like i was mad at those
people and i wanted to like ban
them or i wanted to like reply and i was
kind of saucy a little bit
but like i wanted to be like you don't
know what i'm dealing with you don't
understand how hard this is for me
but i was just like i'm not gonna do
that like it's it's not like
i tried to take a step back and be like
okay let's think rationally here
they're not trying to be mean to you
like you are
this is your perception of the situation
but i just remember like that little
thing man
like it really messed with me it really
it
messed with it just made it made me feel
stupid is the
is like the most that's the easiest way
to kind of explain it
yeah it's it's uh once again a beautiful
insight into
you know a painful thing john because i
i think that the takeaway there is like
once again what you're feeling john
is not you it's an echo
right that hurt you carry with you
because it's never been processed
and if you want to be free of it you
have to like process it so let me ask
you this
how did you feel towards the people who
brought you the typing machine
i think initially i felt special
because it was like wow this is like
again it was before
there was a lot of stuff like that out
there so i was like oh i have this cool
thing
but then it started to feel almost like
a scarlet letter
um because everyone else is writing and
i have this machine
but then i felt like okay my teachers
now are probably gonna think okay he's
gonna do better but i was so
unbelievably slow at it that it was like
this
machine that they gave me to help is
making me i feel like it's making me
feel worse
so at the start it felt nice because i
felt special but then it felt
i just started to feel worse and worse
and worse because
and then it was like i wanted to prove
to these people that i like
i should have this but i just and so it
just became like this kind of thing of
shame that i had
eventually i just stopped using it
because i was like well this isn't
helping me at all
okay how many other people when they
graduated had a nickname
read out no one there's your scarlet
letter
so so like i was saying uh you know just
to recap you had sort of said that you
felt like
i'd asked you about the um
i had asked you about you know what it
felt like to have the
the typewriter or whatever and then you
kind of felt like they labeled you with
something different
yeah and you had a scarlet letter and
then i had asked the question for people
who missed it
um you know how many people had a
nickname when they graduated
and then you'd said none um and i think
that's just an example of you
solidifying your isolation from
the rest of the world right and you kind
of owning that part but at the end of
the day
you're still isolating yourself and i
think that
part of you know i i'd imagine that when
you feel worthless when you have that
kind of panic attack you also feel
incredibly incredibly isolated oh yeah
yeah yeah and that no one understands
you
um can you tell me a little bit about
those feelings or explain those or just
share with us what it feels like when
you have these panic attacks
yeah i can try um
it feels like i said it
like there's this numbness where it's
like no matter what anyone says to me
no matter any it just doesn't matter
like i can
like i said i struggle with being still
and like not
you know like my 80d but like when i'm
in this mode i
can be dead still staring at a wall for
an
hour not even thinking about it like i
don't
it's this crazy feeling of like i just
feel like
nothing matters like nothing matters no
nothing anyone says matters and um
i just start i'll end up i guess the
i've heard the word catastrophizing so
like i feel like i'll
end up trying to find the worst
things things that can make me feel the
worst and then i focus on those things
and so like i'm intentionally being i'll
intentionally be really mean to myself
and this is where i say like i'm mean to
other people because again obviously if
i'm close to someone and they know this
is going on they're trying to reach out
and help
my girlfriend is the person that comes
to mind and i'm just like
super dismissive and i'm just like i'm
this i'm worthless i'm
a piece of garbage like i'll say these
things that are just so
mean like that you know if someone were
to say it to me i'd be like screw you
man like what are you talking about
but like i have no problem saying it to
myself
and but i would say like the thing that
it's like the world kind of like i don't
know if you had the
um the new airpods but like the new
airpods are noise cancelling
you put them in they make like this
that's what it feels like
that's how i feel like the world that's
what i feel like happens to the world
when i'm having those feelings i can
almost like hear that
sound and then the noise cancellation is
there and but instead of noise
cancellation it's like world
cancellation
where anything else that's going on
doesn't matter
uh like there could be bombs going off
next door and i'm like i don't freaking
care
you know yeah john honestly it's bizarre
but this sounds to me like a
like when i've worked with people with
ptsd and they have flashbacks
it sounds like a flashback right so so i
work with someone who's a teacher
and then something happened in school
and they like jumped under their desk
right and like they weren't in school
anymore like the rest of the world
disappears and they're like trapped in
their own mind
and and that's honestly what it sounds
like to me like you become sort of
trapped
within your own mind and it seems like a
really dark
place yeah i mean it can be in those
i mean it certainly can be in those
moments like that's why i said i feel
like i'm a different person because it's
like
my mind changes as well yep um
there's only been like those happen i
don't want to say they happen like super
frequently it'll be maybe
once a month or something like that i've
only had one time where i genuinely felt
like i was having a panic attack
um where i remember it was towards like
the beginning of
the beginning of quarantine um and i
remember
i had injured my back doing a workout
and so i was
i was very like immobile at the time and
i know for me working out is a huge
form of stress release for me like it
i've noticed that
for sure um and so i was dealing with a
back injury and i remember i
i was in the shower and then i remember
thinking
wow i'm like it's like really hard to
breathe right now like i'm like
something's kind of going on like my
head feels kind of weird
and i remember i uh i ended up getting
out of the shower and i got into my bed
i didn't i didn't even dry myself off
because i was like i feel like really
weird and then i got into my bed and
then i remember
i was like oh i think i might i think
i'm gonna throw up so then i went back
i went back into the bathroom and laid
by the toilet
and i i remember just like i felt like i
was going to die
like it really felt like i felt like i
could i could
the reason i brought up it was the
beginning of quarantine was because i
was like i was like super stressed out
about coronavirus i was like what
i could do am i like every day i felt
like i think i have it i think i have it
and i would be like stressed out about
it
so then i was like i was like checking i
was like doing the whole thing where i'd
like hold my breath
and like oh can i still breathe and then
i was like i was super
super worried about that and then
i started like feeling like i could feel
like my heartbeat in my ever
everything like i just felt like my
whole heart was being and i genuinely
was like i think i'm i think i'm gonna
die right now
like i was i seriously thought i was
going to die
um and i remember i ended up like i was
just lit i just laid in my bathroom
for a while and then i finally started
to like like i said like the the noise
cancellation kind of started to lift
and i could like stand up but it was
like that's only happened to me one time
but it was like
the scariest thing i think i've ever
i've ever been through
um but those like other moments that
i've talked about frequently they happen
you know like pretty frequently i guess
like once a month once every few weeks
yeah so
john thank you for sharing that just a
couple of thoughts so the first is that
it sounds like it was quite profound and
powerful of an experience
yeah and yet my preference would be to
focus on the other ones because those
happen more frequently yeah
yeah yeah i think that it just came to
my mind no no i'm glad you shared it the
other thing that i would tell you is
that really does sound like a panic
attack
so yeah that's nothing nothing you have
said so far has made me think
you need to uh potentially an evaluation
or treatment
for an actual like illness um
but i i would say to you at this point
that you know if that kind of thing
continues to happen you should
absolutely go see a doctor about it
yeah okay so for people who don't know
just a real quick
reason to go see a doctor is that so one
of the hallmarks of panic attacks is a
sense of what they call
impending doom so people like actually
think
that they're gonna die and so it's it's
a strange thing to ask someone but
sometimes i'll ask people
do you have a sense of impending doom
and if people have panic attacks they're
like [ __ ] yeah that's it that's what it
is
like it's like it's a sense of impending
like this
is real and i'm gonna die now and
and that's what happens and it's
essentially a physiologic response right
so like your
your your adrenaline is through the roof
and things like that and then
all your danger circuitry lights up in
your brain
and then like this is the part of your
brain that like warns you about death
and and the problem is that normally
that part of your brain
only activates when there is impending
death
yeah but what's happened is that our
brain now lives in a society
that we have not evolved to live in and
so sometimes that circuit of our like oh
[ __ ] we're gonna die circuit
that's the technical neuroscientific
term that circuit sometimes
activates inappropriately because it
doesn't have like tigers and stuff to
worry about
so it activates in relation to like
paying rent at the end of the month
and other things like that but if that
continues
the reason that i'd really recommend
that you get evaluated for is because
there are like treatments
for that so that you don't have to
continue feeling that way
um what brings on the other episodes
like the episodes that you say happen
once a month where you feel really
isolated can you tell us about that
yeah i mean it's it's so many things
like it can be so many things i think
it's
uh like you it was that that one moment
i talked about with the keyboard
right with the typewriting um it's it's
like moments where
uh i might be like talking to
my my girlfriend and she might
i i feel so bad that it's she has to
deal with it so often but like
she might say something like something
little
and then i just start to
i so okay i mean i feel bad that i'm
sharing this but
um she'll say something about like an x
or a guy was like
being weird to her at the gym and that
stuff like makes me
feel like i guess i guess it is um
jealousy which we've talked about and
she's like you know i'm jealous too so
it makes me feel a little bit better
about it but it's like
i can understand why she would be
jealous
yeah yeah so like it and and so i
start to feel like okay like someone's
going to
like be better and then she's going to
like them more and then i start to feel
this way
and then i start treating her um
poorly you know what i mean not like i'm
not being mean to her but i'm just
super shut off and then i'm saying all
of these thoughts that i was that i was
explaining i'm like i'm worthless all
this stuff
and then it like it's frustrating oh man
we've dealt with
we've dealt with this a few times that's
why i'm getting so heated like it's
frustrating because then
of course she's like well i don't want
to share a lot of stuff with you if it's
going to make you feel this way
and then that makes me feel bad because
she's right
and i'm like well if you don't feel like
you can share things with me
what good am i as a boyfriend and then
like that's happened a few times
um and i mean there's there honestly
like it could be
almost anything if i'm in this if i'm in
the mood i guess or if i'm in a place
where it might happen
anything really can trigger it like it
can it could genuinely be anything i
remember
i was streaming one night and uh a bunch
of people came in and they spammed
very not okay words um and
i remember i was freaked out and then i
started being like you
idiot you should have made it so they
couldn't have done that like you should
have made it so they couldn't join the
discord and say all that stuff like this
is your fault and like like i said it it
can literally be anything that might
make me feel kind of stupid i guess is
the best way to explain it
okay so that that's useful so let's talk
about
a couple of things right so one thing
that sometimes happens when we feel bad
about ourselves
is we try to push people away and it
sounds like
you know you try to push your girlfriend
away and you're like if you feel that
way i don't even know why you're with me
i'm worthless piece of [ __ ] anyway
just break up with me and be done with
it
[Music]
and it's like hearing him just like
it's it sucks to hear it but it's true
like that's pretty much
what i'll say like for lack of a better
job it's pretty much almost exactly
verbatim how i how i act yeah and it's
like it's very embarrassing sharing this
because this is definitely one of those
things that i feel the most shame about
i can share other stuff like i can show
my loose skin
and like all this stuff that people are
like oh that like i've had people call
it like people will say oh your skin's
disgusting
that's so nasty and i'm like whatever i
don't care like this thing i'm just like
oh it's just like it's like definitely
something i feel them like
i don't want to say the most shame of
because i don't know but like i feel a
lot of shame
yeah so john how do you feel sharing
this now like what are you feeling in
this moment this is
we can work through this okay i'm
feeling well
the immediate reaction is i'm feeling
relief um
because i it makes
me feel like i i have to act less like i
am
like perfect you know because like i
think something i struggle with is
i think and this is like the whole
imposter thing is like there are so many
people that follow me and i
want to be good for them i want to be
perfect and like i've explained
um this before and like i feel like
there's a lot of times where i wear a
mask
and then a lot of times people don't
even like the mask that i'm wearing
so the the thing that i put on to make
people like me people don't even like
anyways
so now i feel like i'm kind of like
floating
in this like just like i'm just like
what
am i you know yeah i can't win um but i
definitely i
i just like full transparency i feel
relieved
but also i feel worried that people are
gonna move
that people are gonna what the heck are
gonna feel just like
are you kidding me man like jeez you
really have some stuff to work on and
that
that scares me because i think that um
i i i that mask is still on to a certain
extent like i want to be the
i know what i'm doing and i can help
everyone you know
yeah so it sounds like you're afraid of
judgment yeah oh yeah yeah
yeah so i i think interestingly enough i
think that that fear of judgment comes
from you
right because you judge it yeah
and and it's because if we really pay
attention john we can see that other
people can judge you and even judge you
harshly
but it doesn't stick unless you judge
yourself in the same way
yeah right you feeling okay your voice
has changed
oh no no i i fully agree sorry okay
no no i i'm just it's not anything
you're doing wrong
yeah no i'm not i'm not choked up yet
okay that's cool
i mean we don't it's our goal is not to
choke you up i think this is often time
it's a common misconception um yeah
so let's just talk about pushing people
away for a second because i want to i
want to try to help you understand that
or at least my understanding of it
so it's interesting right because when
you push your girlfriend away and she
doesn't
break up with you how do you feel
like what's wrong with you um
but it definitely like joking that's
kind of sometimes how i feel
um because i'm always thinking like what
are you trying to get
out of this like why why are you
sticking around i think i struggle with
that just in general like with other
people
um reaching out and being like oh you
should like watch this video or do this
like i made this you should you should
check it out
i deal with that a lot and so i'm always
kind of constantly on guard of people
feeling like people only want to be
around me because they can get something
out of that
um but then on top of that i do feel
this sense of um security and feeling
like okay well
she obviously definitely does care right
because
holy crap if she didn't why would she
stick around this
um yeah so so so that's
i'm glad you can detect that because
that's really an
important thing and i'm glad you see it
and know that already so john you're
very insightful it's i think it's
it's cool because i think we can cover a
lot of ground
so i think so if we i want people to
understand this too who are watching so
part of the reason that we push people
away
is so that we can feel secure when
they don't leave right so if i if i'm
afraid of my value
and i say john get the [ __ ] out of here
and then despite all of my efforts to
push you away
if you choose to stay then i do feel
secure
yeah so it's really tricky because like
the harder you push her and the worse
you feel about herself
conversely the more secure you're gonna
feel
even in sort of like a weird convoluted
toxic
way because like it's like
it's like you're challenging her to
demonstrate her commitment to you
yeah yeah and it can be very damaging
for relationships don't get me wrong but
i i think part of what we have to
understand is that i think like john
most people in our mind just works like
this like it does what it needs to
to get what it needs and it sort of does
the best that it can
it's on this in a bizarre way like part
of you pushing her away
is like a way of you actually reassuring
yourself
that the things that you believe about
may not be true that makes
that completely makes sense right and so
so the the next question is okay so like
what do we do about it and i i think the
first step is just that to like notice
that you're doing this
right to watch because now you're saying
that you don't feel like you're in
control
and now we kind of get to an interesting
kind of like yogic part which is that
you have
two parts you have three parts of being
you have a physical body
you have a mental body or a mind
and then you have something like
awareness
or a soul like those terms are sort of
interchangeably
what i mean by soul is you can talk
about soul is something that persists
beyond body and mind be
after death and all that stuff but the
point here is that
even if you don't believe in any of that
you don't need to what you can still
acknowledge is that there is some part
of awareness
or self that exists outside of body and
mind
like if i can observe my hand then i can
then
i'm not my hand right like this is not
who i am
i am something outside of this and then
what we hear you say is that sometimes
you are not your mind and that something
takes control
of your mind but then that still means
that you are not your mind
and and so the the key thing in terms of
like
making progress here is to focus on that
thing
and to even watch your mind get taken
over
by this thing and it's almost like you
start a movie and like the movie's gotta
play through to the end
you know you're like boarding a train
and you don't get to go off halfway
the train only goes from point a to
point b and so once you start to feel
that vulnerability the first thing you
should do is just like
watch it run its course that you're
gonna try to push her away and she's
gonna reassure you
and when she reassures you there are
going to be two things in your mind one
is like what on earth are you thinking i
don't understand why you're trying to
reassure me because i'm not worth it
and just watch that and then the second
thing is like deep down you're actually
going to start to feel
secure and comforted because
you don't feel like you're worth
something and when she treats you
with affection in spite of you not
deserving it
that can be really reassuring
so then that begs the question and let
me know if you have further questions
okay because i'm kind of in teaching
mode now
so then that begs the question why on
earth does this continue to happen
if we feel secure like you'd think that
if she feels if she makes you feel
secure
shouldn't it go away and the problem
here is that even though it makes you
feel
secure it still reinforces
the idea that you don't deserve her
affection
and that's at the root of all of it does
that make sense
yeah and so each time it happens
even though you feel better because she
makes you feel loved in spite of it
in spite of the fact that you don't
deserve her love because that can
actually feel really amazing right that
someone loves you and you don't even
deserve it
and so that's why you do it but the
other really
careful thing is that you're building up
that machine that believes that you
don't deserve love
and this circles all the way back to
this idea that you're lucky and you're
grateful and whatever
and if you just go back and you listen
to everything that you're saying john
ask yourself how many of these
statements thoughts or feelings
come from the idea that you don't
deserve it
that you're not good enough right
you you post something about your typing
or whatever and then people are like
yeah why are you so bad bro okay like
why does that hurt because you don't
feel
like you're you have value on the inside
and and all this stuff around your
girlfriend and like all the stuff about
you know it all comes back to value
[Music]
thoughts questions about that no i mean
at all
it all makes sense like i think that
a lot of it definitely comes down to
feeling
like i said like feeling like worthless
or feeling like you don't you don't
deserve
like that's a big part of it is like i
don't feel like i deserve
anything really you know and like i i
think it like started from a good spot
of like
trying to not be selfish and like trying
to not be like i you like
i deserve the world like i don't want to
be that person you know
i want to be grateful and thankful but i
mean it goes back to almost like the
very beginning of the talk
we were talking about that can be
dangerous because then it's like well if
you don't deserve anything then what are
you
are you like and that's where my mind
goes yep
and so i think it's it's a tricky
balance right so how do you
ha so so i think it comes down to kind
of acceptance of of where you are
and like how can you be grateful for the
things that you
deserve right because we think about
like gratitude
and deserving is like entitlement at
opposite ends of the spectrum but
it's actually really simple right like
if i um if i go to a restaurant and i
order food
i deserve that food and yet i can still
be really grateful that it tastes
amazing
yeah right and and so and i can also be
upset because you know i paid for like
good food and you guys are giving me
like microwave [ __ ] from yesterday
yeah i'm allowed to be upset at that and
also like not be an [ __ ]
i can acknowledge that i actually
deserve more than what i got
and then the cool thing is that and now
we get to a really tricky thing john
is that i don't know if you can forgive
anyone
if they didn't do anything wrong
and if you didn't deserve anything then
no one
did anything wrong to you right
and so the really tricky thing here is
that i i don't think you're living a
life
where you can actually like like i don't
know if you've forgiven your mom
yeah you know it's in it and we haven't
really talked about it and you said that
like
you know she got her life together and
like sure there's a whole story of
success and acceptance and
transformation and growth which is
really really positive
and there's also a story of like having
a child and like
going through foster care and and a lot
of uncertainty a lot of terror
right frankly i can only imagine what it
would be like for a three-year-old to
like
you know move to some uncle's house and
then like
you talk about being grateful because
you didn't go into the system you can
express gratitude
for your uncle and you can also
be mad at your mom for like bringing you
into a world where
she really didn't take care of you for
the first couple of years
and i'm not saying that you should call
her a bad person but like
you know i think it's important if
someone kind of doesn't do their job
and doesn't do right by their children
for the child to be able to forgive
because i think that there's there's a
lot of negative emotion there and i find
it hard to believe that on some level
like you don't hold some of that
um
yeah i think like hearing that i just i
struggle with it because i know my mom
has also beat herself up a lot because
of
um because of it and i know like we
we've had conversations where
she like a lot of she she blames herself
a lot for
like how large i was as well as a child
because
uh we couldn't really afford any like
like presents and stuff like that but
like whenever we did have extra money it
went to like buying fast food or buying
like a
as a treat right because we could
actually that was like something we
could afford
and i know that she holds a lot of a lot
of guilt for
the size that i was and like she's she's
told me a story like she used to walk
into my room when i was at my heaviest
and
like when i was sleeping and she'd look
at the bed and she would like she
describes like it was just a big blob on
the bed because of how large i was
and she would leave the room crying you
know and so i like i
i feel a lot of um i feel a lot of
pride in the fact that i've been able to
take that away from her
um take that guilt away because now i'm
good you know like you don't
worry about it let me explain something
to you okay dude this is important but
stay with me
you haven't taken it away from her she
still carries that [ __ ] man
[Music]
let me ask you something if i do
something wrong to you
and i feel guilty
how do you make me feel better
i mean i guess like by maybe saying
sorry and like not doing it again
no no so so if i wrong you and i feel
guilty
how do you make me feel better sorry
i [ __ ] by saying it's all good like i'm
i'm
it's okay like i'll be fine ah
so that's what you say so i think that's
the interesting thing right
so the way i say that a lot i'll be fine
yep
so so i don't think that's what it is
it's it's for you to say i forgive you
it's a to acknowledge that you [ __ ] up
we're gonna own that together
and i forgive you anyway but i think the
problem here is that when you say
it's all good like it's subtle it's very
very subtle
the person who can get rid of her guilt
is actually you but in order to get rid
of her guilt you have to acknowledge
what she did wrong
and then forgive her for it yeah i
i definitely try and i try and make
people not feel bad
and so instead of being like you know
that was really messed up i'm like it's
all good i'm fine
you know don't worry about it that's i
say that all the time like to my
girlfriend as well
like don't worry about it yep which
doesn't i guess
leaves no one with any sort of recourse
i guess because there you go
right it's weird it's one of these
adaptations that we have to maintain
harmony but doesn't fix the problem
and i just think about this for a second
if you go to your mom and like it's
gonna hurt
right and you say like when you saw me
as a blob
like there are times in my life where i
wish
that you hadn't given us fast food
but the more that i've come to
understand you and
and things like that i understand that
you didn't know any better and i forgive
you for that
and i also think that it's amazing that
you got clean like
do i wish the first couple of my years
of my life were different
yes could you have done a better job
absolutely and i forgive you anyway
because at the end of the day you did
get your [ __ ] together
and you supported me in ways a b and c
and i'm not overweight now i'm doing
awesome in life and part of that is
because of what you've given me
and so i forgive you for what happened
because at the end of the day my life is
pretty good
now and you did get sober right so it's
it's like
john for you i mean you're so insightful
and you're so introspective
for you this next phase is about balance
of the good and the bad
it's not good versus bad it's not
protecting your mom from the hurt
because you don't want to hurt her
you have to let her be hurt and then you
have to let her heal
but because you're taking that away from
her you're never holding her responsible
you can't ever forgive her and she can't
ever move past it
instead you guys just kind of pretend
you know no harm no foul
yeah which there's a part of me that
says that like
for her to truly be at peace you've got
to let her own her mistakes
but make sure she doesn't fall into the
trap of devaluing her successes too
you've got to give her both the good and
the bad
and then if you say mom i forgive you i
think then her guilt will really go away
because right now it's just buried yeah
thoughts i mean i i
i think that you are you are definitely
right i
um i think like this is something that a
lot of my family has done
um i would say more most specifically
probably my
my brother and me my brother he's older
than i am
and uh he is also you know doing his own
thing he just got married they're about
to have a baby soon and like he's gotten
out of that kind of world
um and so we both kind of try and just
be like every hey we're good
my mom everything's fine but a lot of my
uh
some parts of my family haven't really
gotten out of it and
they struggle with the same things my
mom did um
and so i think part of why i it's so
hard for me to do that to my mom is
because i know that she's still
struggling with so much guilt with like
my oldest brother travis
is still a he's still a drug addict and
like he's
getting arrested all the time still and
he's almost he's 40 years old
and my mom i know my mom carries a lot
of guilt
with with him still about him still
um and then with my younger sister she
is
he's getting on the right foot but she's
had a lot of struggles as well
and um my mom basically takes care of
her child
um my niece faith who i love a lot um
but i know that
she carries a lot of guilt because of
that so i just feel bad like stacking
you know like i just like hey i'm doing
good mom like you
you i know that you have to worry about
them don't worry about me
i'm cool like everything's you know i'm
doing i'm doing well which obviously
isn't
true but it's like that's i guess what i
tell myself yeah so so i think it's it's
makes sense right because you're
protecting her yeah
like you said you don't want to stack
guilt and so i'm not saying that the
conversation needs to happen now
yeah but i do think for real healing
and and you know this reminds me of of
you know sometimes i hear
some people say that you know your mom
did the best that she could i hear this
a lot
from from children who are protective of
their parents
yeah and they said you know she did the
best that she could
you don't say she did a great job she
said
she did the best that she could there's
a big difference there
and i i i'm telling you i've i've seen
this play out a couple of times where
like in the right time in the right
place
um you know you can have a conversation
with her
and then the other thing is that
sometimes you don't even need a
conversation with her
you just need to like process that for
yourself
and then she'll feel because right now
what she gets from you
is like she [ __ ] knows man she's your
mom
she knows that there's a wall that
you're putting up and you're trying to
protect her
and she loves you for it but she's your
mom and she knows that on the other side
of that wall is hurt
and even if you can forgive her yourself
you don't have to say anything to her
but if you can forgive her and you can
stop protecting her and you can let
those walls down she's gonna know that
too and i've seen that
when you know we'll work through things
in therapy with patients where like
people will let go of resentment towards
their parents and like their parents
like
it's weird like they'll meet for
christmas and their parents will like
start crying and [ __ ] and like no one
knows what's going on
but like they can tell yeah i mean
yeah i think like if even if you don't
want to just say it's like through
wavelengths but like
it definitely could be through how i
would act because i definitely don't i
don't reach out to her very much i don't
share much with her because again it's
like i'm just trying to like
i guess like i don't want to say wash my
hands of it but just i just like hey
you're doing your thing i'm doing my
thing there's no re like i love you
there's no reason for us to
talk too much you know i don't we don't
really don't talk very much at all
how do you feel about that
it's it's definitely something that i
i didn't think that it would happen
because i lived with her up until i was
like 23 or 24
um and so i lived with her so we talked
all the time but then once i left it was
like almost
because that that house that i was
living in was very crazy
like my sister lived there with my niece
and it was her and then we at one point
we had 10 people living there with one
bathroom like it was just crazy
and i remember like leaving there i felt
like i was leaving everything behind
and i kind of treated it that way um
like i just kind of stopped reaching out
and uh and i kind of just like
i i just wait for her to reach out to me
i think like not because i don't care
about her but because like
one thing i also like really struggle
with is feeling like i'm a burden
and i don't want to feel like i'm being
a burden by like hey i have this or like
i want i need this help or i just wanted
to reach out and say hi like even though
that's silly like why would i be a
burden by just saying hi
like that's how i feel and so i just
don't you know
okay so now we're getting into different
territory
so so you know where does that feeling
come from because that's an echo too
oh the the burden thing is oh man
i i think it comes from similar places
of like the feeling stupid um because of
the extra help i would get i felt like i
was becoming a burden to other people
and then like this is like it's it's a
lot of
like when i say like i'm worthless and
all this stuff then i'm also tacking on
like you're you're being a burden like
you're making things harder for other
people
so this is why i think like i've even
had conversations with people that help
me like with some of my
my mods and my discord and like all this
stuff is like i don't i almost never ask
them for help
and they're like dude you're weird we
want to help you and i'm just like
no i'll do it myself like i just do it
myself it's fine like i i
am used to doing everything on my own
and
i think it's because i don't like to i
just don't want people to feel like they
need to help me like i want to be able
to
i can do on my own i don't need anyone
to help me
because i feel like if i'm being a
burden that's like a negative thing
and then like i'm a burden because i am
stupid and because
i am i i can't do things on my own
and i just i i really really don't like
feeling that way because like i want to
help others
i don't want others to have to help me i
guess
um right so i don't want others
so so that's interesting because there's
a i
you tossed in one very interesting word
there
i want to help others i don't want
others to have to help me
yeah right yeah that i don't want like
it's a necessity when they're helping
you because you can't do it without them
and and i think there's something
significant i don't know exactly
what that is it's going to take me some
time to process that but
the other thing so john i would say you
know i'm going to give you some advice
or ask you to do something which is
something i very rarely do
i think you should talk to your mom more
yeah
yeah i agree okay and and here's why
so it sounds like your sister is still
kind of struggling your brother is
still kind of struggling and you don't
want to help her
i think you should give your mom a
wonderful opportunity that your brother
and sister can't help
can't give her which is the opportunity
to help one of her children
and it actually end up well
right yeah you should give her the
chance to help you
and this is the thing she doesn't need
to help you you don't have to have it
happen
so we're gonna dispel all of that give
her the opportunity
if you need some support let her support
you
and you know in the back your mind if
she can't do it no big deal you're gonna
be fine anyway
but give her the chance if you're
worried about something or you have like
a fight with your girlfriend or whatever
like
you know if you really want to push your
girlfriend away talk to your mom about
it
um right but i would say just talk to
her man
yeah and even even feeling like i i
can't tell you
do you have kids john no okay
so i can tell you as a dad like kids
burdening you is like only annoying some
of the time
but generally speaking you know as a
parent like i love to know what's going
on in my kid's life i love to be able to
help that's what i'm [ __ ] here for
and for your mom you've got to give her
the chance to make up for lost time
because right now in her mind i can
guarantee you that she feels that
there's a pile of [ __ ] that she should
have done for you that she didn't do
yeah and you feel like you're a burden
but what you're you're really doing is
preventing her
from like paying off that debt you know
so give her the opportunity to help you
give her the opportunity to be a part of
your life and let her see that you're
okay
and let her see that you're not okay
and if you need her help like that's
totally cool man like
take her help because that's what moms
are here for
[Music]
what do you think about that
i mean i think that i mean it's
it's definitely something that i
i think will be helpful i know i would
the first thing i wanted to say is that
i need to do but
i just i didn't feel like i wanted to
use that those words but i do believe
that it is
um something that will not just be
helpful to me but i i know will be
helpful to her
and even if it's like like yeah like you
said like just being like hey mom i
this happened today i'm just stressed
about it what do you think you know and
like just like even like
even though it might seem insignificant
to me the thought that she could like
help me
talk me through it or just kind of share
her thoughts um
i know that she would she would
appreciate that opportunity
so i agree yeah right and and you know
let her because i i think if we really
think about like
if we really think about where this echo
comes from right so i i
what it is in sanskrit it's called the
sum scott so some scott is like a ball
of undigested
emotion or like a trauma what we're
really talking about is like when we
think about and
and this may sound you know
be careful about i've been hesitating to
say this but i'm just gonna go and say
it
so if we think about really where
insecurity comes from there's this
branch of psychology called attachment
theory
an attachment theory has to do with the
security of the child
and how a child feels valued
and there are children who grow up with
something that we call insecure
attachment or children who grow up with
secure attachment
and the studies that are done on this
how you tell whether a child is secure
or has insecure or secure attachment
they do this really cool experiment
parent and child are in a room with some
blocks
and then stranger walks into the room
like they do this with like
one-year-olds okay
and then mom gets up and leaves the room
how long does it take for the child to
start crying
when the mom just like gets up and walks
away like how long before the child like
notices
becomes uncomfortable with with the the
other stranger in the room
and then the cool thing is for kids who
are securely attached when mom walks
back into the room
how long does it take for children to
stop crying
how long does it it take when they start
to feel insecure
when you start to feel worthless
how long does it take for other people
to be able to reassure you
and so for children who are securely
attached it takes like
less than 15 seconds they cry really
loud and like mom walks into the room
within a few seconds like the crying is
gone what i'm hearing from you and this
has to do with maybe like mind body kind
of stuff is like
i think if you grew up in a household in
the first three years of your life
with parents who were using you probably
your brain learned that the world is
like kind of a dangerous place
and it's hard to reassure children who
have insecure attachment
[Music]
and and so i what i'm hearing from you
is that it's hard to reassure you
right like when other people tell you
it's gonna be
okay i just don't believe him i just yep
i'm like yeah you're lying and the
really tricky thing
there is that like why is that it's
because like when you were one and
before you even had memories
when you were scared like it's sad to
say but like it probably wasn't okay
like it may have been something as
simple as like you know you needed a
diaper change or you were hungry or
something like that and like actually
your basic needs weren't met it's really
sad
i remember one time i was um when i was
doing my pediatrics rotation
we had this one kid on the floor who
looked really interesting so it's
interesting you talk about you know
extra skin
so it was like a really wrinkly baby
like super super wrinkly like flabs of
skin like hanging off they look like an
old person but like a baby turns out the
kid was very malnourished
and so they just had no baby fat and the
kid was just the sweetest kid in the
world because the kid never cried
all the other kids cry this kid doesn't
cry and i was like that's kind of
interesting like kids seem super chill
and one of the nurses
because nurses really understand [ __ ]
okay let me explain something to y'all
nurse was like the kid has learned that
crying is useless
oh that if it cries no one's gonna come
so when it feels bad it just sits with
itself
it doesn't reach out to other people
right and so if we really think about
like
what happened to you it's like my guess
is that it runs really deep my dude
and the good news i know that's dark but
the good news is that you don't have to
feel that way
right is that that can change and i
think that basically like give your mom
a chance to like
love you and take care of you
and the next time you feel like a child
go running to mama
and like just i'm curious like what
would happen i i'm really curious from a
diagnostic perspective
you can push your girlfriend away but i
wonder what would happen if you went
crying to mama like if she would
actually like like that's what you need
right and that's what she needs and then
she gets the chance to like fix what she
didn't do right in the first three years
of your life
anyway i've been talking a lot for like
the last half an hour to 45 minutes
no i i think like it's interesting that
you bring that up because i definitely
have this weird
like like my mom and my dad
they're both so appreciative when we
talk on the phone
because we don't really see each other
very much my dad lives kind of far away
like an hour
um and so whenever if we talk on the
phone like they're always like super
happy and it's weird because like i feel
good about that then i also almost feel
bad
that they like the simple act of just
talking on the phone like
brings them so much joy and like i am i
almost feel like i am withholding that
joy from them
in some way because i'm not interested
in really
talking that much like i think it might
be like you said like this
sense of i'm still blaming them for
things so i just kind of like
i'm just like good you guys do your
thing we'll do our thing
it's all good you know i'm fine uh
and so i definitely like i what you're
saying now i mean it definitely
resonates with me is i guess
what i'm trying to say yeah i mean so
john i'm gonna put different words to it
okay you let me know because these are
like kind of nasty words
i'm fine without you i don't need you
anymore
oh yeah yeah you weren't there when i
needed you and
i don't [ __ ] need you now yeah
right so that you've got to let go of
man that anger like
gotta let it go
and and you're not going to be able to
do that without forgiving him
yeah and so like to say that like i
needed you before you weren't there for
me
and i grew up anyway
and i hate you for that
but i also love you
because i recognize that like you had a
hard life too
and that like at some point you know you
did show up
and that without you i probably wouldn't
be where i am today
but boy did i wish you did a better job
because it caused me a lot of hurt
and you don't have to have that
conversation now
yeah like you can have it when you're
ready
but i'm not surprised that you know it's
hard for you to talk to them and you
kind of say it's all good now
because there's an undercurrent of like
anger and blame underneath that
yeah and then what we do is we we just
pile on all this positivity right like i
don't want to make him feel bad
because all those things are true it's
not that those things aren't true it's
just that
you know john you got rid of it yep
right it's not just
beast it's obese two beasts
yeah right it's like
triumph over adversity which means that
there was adversity
i started crying i
i took that one for the team thanks i
appreciate it yeah
is it is it cool if i go to the bathroom
real quick yeah absolutely i mean go for
it okay
all right i'll be right back i'm sorry
yeah so
you know john it actually feels to me
like we've kind of covered a fair amount
of ground and
and um you know if you have questions
and stuff i'd love
to answer them if you have thoughts that
you want to share i'd love to listen
um we can talk a little bit about
meditation if you'd like but
you know i kind of feel like we're at a
decent pause or stopping point how do
you feel
no yeah i think that that that sounds
good to me i just yeah i wanted to wait
to go to the bathroom until there was
like a
natural break in the conversation i
don't want to be like all right i gotta
go
um so i guess like one thing that i am
just interested this is a very
my own kind of personal thing so um
recently i've cut out
um caffeine for the most part like
because i felt like it was like really
triggering
uh my anxiety but i was just kind of
curious what you think about that is
that like kind of bs does that actually
help people
um is that actually a useful thing
because i definitely do miss caffeine
but
i feel like it i do feel like it's
helped me but i'm just like is that
placebo
um you know healthy like with
my anxiety because like i was i was i
felt like i was noticing
when i would um drink coffee in the
morning
was i would like feel those feelings of
anxiety a lot and like i would have like
um those little episodes that i was
telling you about maybe to a lesser
degree
um but i was just kind of curious like
what you think about that is
actually helpful yeah so i i think that
um it certainly is helpful
so the first thing to understand is that
you know human beings are different
and so you got to experiment and kind of
work to figure out what works for you
but there are some general principles so
if we think about caffeine caffeine is a
stimulant right and
anxiety is an issue of excess energy or
like the mind running really really fast
we think about if we talk to people who
have anxiety it's not like their mind
runs slow it's like their mind
is like super super fast right and so we
think about medications for anxiety like
some people find that you know marijuana
or alcohol
like they self-medicate and what do
those substances do they slow us down
right so they're downers um and then if
we think about the class of
drugs or chemicals that stimulate us
caffeine meth cocaine
other kinds of stimulants are going to
make anxiety worse
so worsening anxiety for example is a
potential side effect
of ritalin or adderall so any kind of
stimulant is
can make caffeine worse so i don't think
that's just placebo or anything like
that um
generally speaking you know those uh
caffeine is gonna like
increase the activity of our neurons and
make them kind of jittery and make
you know thoughts increase in rapidity
and if we just think about it i think a
lot of stuff in our body and our mind
are two-way streets
so if we speed up our mind we're more
likely to be anxious
and the more anxious we are the quicker
our mind goes
and if you think about you know what do
people want to do with anxiety they just
want their mind to slow down they want
like everything to slow down
i would bet money that when you had the
panic attack
um your mind was like firing thoughts at
you like
a thousand thoughts a second you know
and it's just like oh my god this and
then this and then this and then this
and then this
and so caffeine puts your mind
into a state where it is more vulnerable
to that kind of thing
you're kind of priming it for rapid
thoughts
and so anxiety kind of really grows in
that sort of soil
um so i think it's it's good that you
cut caffeine out
yeah it can definitely help yeah my
my like whole plan i was thinking about
eventually if i do
introduce it again it would be like
before i like only before workouts
because i i've always felt like if i
have like a like
the caffeine is going to something right
like i'm going to do a workout so like
my brain is focused on that
then it would maybe help i'm still not
exactly sure how i'm going to implement
that but like those are
i don't know i just i just wanted to ask
you about that because i figured you
probably had some insight
absolutely so i mean some people do take
caffeine as a like a pre-workout
supplement right so people will even
take like caffeine pills and stuff to
improve their workouts um you know i
think it sort of makes sense but i think
generally speaking you know the more
the fewer mind-altering substances you
have floating around in your system the
more tranquil your mind is going to be
and caffeine is i mean yeah
yeah other questions um well the last
thing i just kind of wanted to talk
about i know this is a big subject but i
just i don't want to take up too much
time
um but like with the the thought of
like okay because i mean i deal with
this so much of people asking me this
question
um or like thinking this way is like
okay i am overweight
and i'm unhappy about being overweight
so i feel like if i lose the weight
then i will be happy right like i guess
i'm just asking have you
dealt with that and like what would you
[Music]
maybe like say to someone that might
have that like mindset that would be
coming to you and asking you about that
it's a great question so that is a very
complex
topic yeah that ultimately has to do
with the nature of happiness
okay um so we can go into that just very
quickly but
so the a couple of things the first
thing is that it makes sense sometimes
for people to feel
happier once they lose weight right it's
not
if you take a thousand people who are
overweight and then they all
lose weight on the whole the
the people that lose weight are more
likely to be more happy
right so so they're the first thing to
acknowledge is that in a lot of cases
losing weight does lead people to feel
happier and there are physiologic
reasons for that and stuff like that you
know you just have more energy
it's not so much about the weight loss
it's about the exercise and the positive
effects of exercise
your basic metabolic rate can go up
things like that you feel
less thompson which is another kind of
thing
which i won't go into but for those of
you who are familiar with that
so the first thing is that sometimes
they feel happy
the second thing is that sometimes
happiness isn't necessarily due to
weight right happiness
is like a self-esteem issue or
you know feeling like you don't deserve
love or attention or things like that
which gets tangled up with the weight
and and we know that because you even
said that like you know when i'm feeling
down and my sister is mean to me
i go and i find comfort in nachos yeah
and that also is like not stupid or
anything that's because we actually
have you know chemicals in our brain
that are released from fatty foods and
sugary foods
that will actually improve our mood in
the short term
and so people can start to feel happier
through food
but what they're doing is they're using
food as like kind of an antidote to a
deeper set problem
and then they start to gain weight their
weight gain preys on their pre-existing
insecurities
and for those people who feel like if i
change my weight my
i'll be happy and everything will be
great that's not gonna work right
because it's like the pre-existing
insecurity and you're actually
a wonderful example of that john because
in a lot of ways you have an
awesome life that you really enjoy
living and that you're grateful for
and you have stuff that lingers that is
independent of your weight
that's the second thing i would tell
them so where is the root
of your unhappiness and i think a lot of
times what happens
and the third thing which is really the
longer discussion which i'm working on
actually a set of videos about this
is like where does happiness come from
right because a lot of times what
happens is people
look at being unhappy and what they do
is they look at some external thing or
even and i even consider to a certain
degree
your body to be an external thing if i
change this
about my life then i will be happy
and so it's like if i had a girlfriend
i'd be happy if i lost weight i'd be
happy
if i graduated from college i'd be happy
if i was in college i'd be happy i
wouldn't have to feel ashamed about
myself
if this thing in the outside world was
different
and i've worked with some very very
successful people who are very very
unhappy
and what they find is that they chase
one thing and then they chase the next
thing
they chase the next thing and they chase
the next thing we did an interview a
couple weeks back with gross gore where
we sort of talk about that because
he was someone who was really like yeah
i want the next thing and that's how i'm
going to be happy
so then let me ask you something
if i eat a cookie and i feel happy where
does the happiness come from does it
come from the cookie or does it come
from me
yeah i would say it comes from you but
the cookie is what made me happy
right why do you say it comes from you
uh well because like i guess it's like
you you chose to eat the cookie and you
like it's your choice to to do that and
then
so you fulfilled something that you were
like trying to to do i guess
sure so the fulfillment of my desire is
what makes me happy
yeah yeah yeah right i guess that's the
same thing as the cookie
no no so i think you're right the
happiness does come from me i'm just
challenging it a little bit so if we
like think about it like
it's this idea that like you know if
something
else like if i get this thing then i'm
gonna be happy that that
fulfilling my desires is what makes me
happy that's what you're saying
and that sort of makes sense because we
think about it like if i ate one cookie
and then i eat a second cookie and a
third cookie and a fourth cookie and a
fifth cookie
what happens to my happiness with
subsequent cookies
i i personally would say it probably
would go down yeah right
because too many cookies right exactly
so so therefore we can say that like
if the happiness really came from the
outside thing then the more of the
outside thing we get the more happy we'd
be
and this is what happens with people who
chase money right they're like i want a
thousand dollars i want ten thousand
dollars
100 000 i want a million dollars i want
two million three million four million
five million they just want more
more and more because they think that
that money is going to bring them
happiness
but it doesn't the happiness actually
comes from in here
if you really tunnel down and you look
at it and then you also say that the
fulfillment of
desires is what brings you happiness but
you know i think the tricky part with
that is if i eat a cookie and i feel
sated
what happens the next day you want to
have another cookie
absolutely yeah right so fulfilling your
desires actually just
buys you more unfulfilled desires in the
future
which is what we see right so then they
lose weight and then they're like i'm
still not happy
yeah now i want this now i want this now
i want this
and so chasing after your desires even
though it brings us a temporary
satisfaction
actually signs us up to become more
dependent
on fulfilling our desires to make
ourselves feel better
and it's a beast that never grows full
it'll always be hungry again
the next day and so what would i say to
these people probably some combination
of all of that
that on the one hand if we really look
at it scientifically improving your
weight is probably going to lead to an
increase in mood
but that if you have some psychological
like unfulfilled need
or slow self-esteem that you equate to
weight
fixing your weight won't be enough it'll
help but it won't be enough
yeah and that ultimately if you really
want to be happy in life you have to
really understand that changing anything
about your external circumstances is not
going to be the real answer
and that it really has to do with like
accepting yourself as who you are
letting go of desire and things like
that
um yeah does that make sense for sure
complete and i usually like yeah go
ahead yeah usually what i try and tell
tell
people is like you can't think of it as
like a magic bullet or like a silver
bullet
or something that's gonna fix everything
like there are certain things that yes
like if you're
really upset that you can't bend down
and put your shoes on then yeah losing
weight will obviously fix that thing
which might make you a little bit happy
about that but if it's like you're start
like with me like struggle with anxiety
or whatever
it's like it's not going it's just not
going to fix that that thing
yeah so okay all right yeah
yeah cool any other questions or great
questions man
no i think that's about it i mean i
again like i said i appreciate you
taking the time to to talk this was
um very insightful um i wanted to say
fun but i feel like that's not that but
i genuinely did enjoy the conversation
yeah but
it was uh it was very insightful and
interesting
yeah uh john i just want to echo again i
i think um
you know you are a really insightful
person i think we
i i got to teach a little bit more
because i think you had gone
halfway there on your own so a lot of
times i have to like get
people to kind of where you started off
um
and and so i really enjoyed that i hope
i didn't monopolize the conversation too
much
but no no i i mean what i wanted to say
is i think a lot of like
not to like try and like sing your
praises too much but like i think a lot
of it was has been from watching your
videos and like
because like a lot of times i'll watch
them or watch them but i'll listen to
them as i'm like on a walk or something
and i try and put myself in the position
as much as i can
um and so i would i would say that's
probably why maybe i was able to
like you said be halfway there because i
i really try to like
okay how does this make me feel like you
know so um
you probably you weren't even you
weren't even doing you you you weren't
even talking to me but you were helping
me at the same time which i know is like
exactly why you do this stuff so yeah
that's really cool i think i'm really
actually happy to hear that john because
i hope more people do what you do
because
i think part of what i'm excited about
is teaching people like step two
right and i i don't give people much
advice because most people are still in
the diagnosis phase where they need to
figure out what's going on
i think you've done such a good job of
sort of starting that process that it's
like really like
call your mom and see what happens right
talk to her there are a lot of subtle
things because you really have grown
it's like
the higher you climb you know the
thinner the air gets and the harder it
is to keep climbing
and and that's what's really tricky um
and john uh
uh the last thing that i want to say is
damn sound like you are really an
outlier when it comes to the hand that
you were dealt
and yeah and how far you've come yeah
thank you i
it's something that i've um it's weird
because like i said the thing i struggle
with is feeling like i'm not special and
stuff but it's something that i've
really been like
um i've started to notice more and more
um and so i try not to uh make it seem
like what i've done is like the easy
thing that anyone can do it like i try
when i say that like i try and put
myself in the position of someone that
might not be able to do that
and like how do i help that person right
um but yeah thank you i
appreciate that um do you meditate
uh i can't say that i do okay that's
totally cool man i mean don't do do you
feel judged when you have to say no to
that question
um no i just uh i i've watched a lot of
your videos and i know that you a lot of
times will do guided meditations
um and so i guess i feel like man maybe
i should be
so so be careful right so don't judge
yourself so now this is going to be
really really hard
okay so be really really really careful
okay john this is the final exam
so i'm gonna ask you if you want me to
teach you some meditation
and i want you to answer with not what
you should say
but what you actually feel yeah
i think i would i would like to learn
some stuff for sure okay cool
so i'm going to teach you some super
basic stuff okay i try to teach this
periodically have you have you done
alternate nostril breathing with us
before
yes i did uh i think it was
it was one of the videos i remember i i
did as much as i could because again i
was on a walk so i was like that's
totally cool
so let's let's do it now okay so i try
to teach this periodically but i think
it's just a great place to
um so alternate nostril breathing is
gonna be
good when you're in those dark moments
where you're losing control of yourself
if you do even nine breaths of alternate
nostril breathing not to say that it's
going to be the magic bullet
and wipe it all away but i think you're
going to be able to take a little bit
more control
okay so alternate nostril breathing is a
should be
technique should be means cleansing and
i think john what you need to do more
than anything
else is like clean this crap out because
you're killing it
in so many different ways that you just
your you've got your trash can is filled
up
in your subconscious you just clean it
out so
what i'm going to ask you to do is take
your right hand and
and fold down two fingers yeah that's
fine too
yeah good yeah um so and then we're
gonna put our right thumb
on our right nostril and breathe in
and when your breath is full we're going
to block the other nostril
good with your pinky good and breathe
out
and breathe in through the same nostril
switch and breathe out
in through the same nostril
switch and out
if you're watching at home go ahead and
join in breathe in
switch breathe out
in
switch out
go ahead and continue at your own pace
remember to breathe out then in
then switch and people may find that one
nostril is more closed than the other
that's completely normal
it's just part of your swara
we'll practice for about 60 more seconds
go ahead and finish the breath that
you're on let your eyes remain closed
and just relax
foreign
i want you to just take a snapshot of
who you are in this moment
just feel the perfection
of your being
it's not big it's not small it's not
brilliant it's not stupid it's just you
and remember that no matter how you feel
or what echoes may arise from your
subconscious
this is who you are
and when you're ready come on back
my camera seems to have uh meditated as
well
yes this is actually kind of creepy bro
it's very weird
one second
like chat this is creepy right
there we go i was very strange i've
never i've never had that happen before
yeah i swear sometimes weird stuff
happens on this like i
like don't know
you know i don't know anyway you seem to
be back now
you feel like you're back yeah i don't
know that was
it's that's literally never happened
this so i'll have it on for hours
i i really don't know what to say man
i've never i've i've never heard of yeah
it's just it's just like too [ __ ]
weird of a coincidence
right right it really is yeah but like
how on earth there's no scientific
plausibility for
anything that has to do with anything
about what just happened there's just
nothing it's just all just completely
[ __ ]
i was i was very confused i like opened
my eyes
like how did he did he turn off my
camera to make it more i was very i was
like wait how is it off i don't know
it's so weird anyway so i think we found
a good technique for your camera
so stick with it
and listen john i mean i i hope the
technique helped you calm yourself a
little bit or you know you felt some
degree of
tranquility or peace no for sure i think
like
i've heard you explain it like the fact
that you have to kind of focus on the
what you're doing it definitely helps me
because i mean
my mind is always going so the fact that
i have to okay breathe in and breathe
out okay
you know what i mean it helps me kind of
not worry about like the noises i'm
hearing in the background or whatever so
great and um john before we wrap up i
know
like people will kind of trickle in do
you just want to tell us a little bit
about who you are and where we can find
more information about you
yeah so my name is john or obesity beast
um i talk about you know weight loss
i talk about you know helping people um
that are you know trying to
to lose weight if you want to watch any
of my videos or anything like that it's
obese to beast on
youtube also on instagram obesity's here
on twitch obesity beasts as well
um i try and i live stream both on
youtube and on twitch
if you guys like watching live streams
um usually a lot of just hanging out and
talking
for the most part i'm not a great gamer
i'll play among us but that's about it
um and yeah so that's pretty much where
you can find me
uh twitter as well obesity it's all the
same cool
thanks a lot man and and you know good
luck to you john
and thank you i just appreciate it sorry
yeah you're very welcome man
um and and good luck to you and and good
luck on your journey
and keep us posted you know let us know
how things are going with your mom
will do i'll let you know for sure take
care guys all right
bye see you later man okay oh
there we go okay chat so that was good
he's a cool guy huh